---
date: '2020-04-07T12:00:00Z'
menu:
  corda-enterprise-4-10:
    parent: corda-enterprise-4-9-corda-nodes-deploying
    identifier: generating-a-node
tags:
- generating
- node
title: Creating nodes locally
weight: 4
---

# Creating nodes locally

Local nodes are used for testing and demo purposes only.

There are two ways you can create a node locally:
* __Manually__: create a local directory, add the relevant node and CorDapp files, and configure them.
* __Automatically__: use the `cordformation` Gradle plugin to configure and generate a local set of nodes.

## Create a local node manually

To create a local node manually, make a new directory and add the following files and sub-directories:

* The Corda `.jar` artifact file, downloaded from [JFrog](https://software.r3.com:443/artifactory/corda-releases/net/corda/corda/4.9/corda-4.9.jar/).
* A node configuration file with a name `node.conf`, configured as described in the [Node configuration](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/corda-firewall-configuration-file.md) section.
* A sub-directory with a name `cordapps`, containing any CorDapp `.jar` files you want the node to load.
* An up-to-date version of the `network-parameters` file (see [The network map](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/network/network-map.html#network-parameters)), generated by the bootstrapper tool.

The remaining node files and directories will be generated at runtime. These are described in the [Node folder structure](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/corda-firewall-configuration-file.md) section.

### Run the database migration script if upgrading

{{< note >}} This step is only required when upgrading to Corda Enterprise. {{< /note >}}

1. Remove any `transactionIsolationLevel`, `initialiseSchema`, or `initialiseAppSchema` entries from the database section of your configuration.
2. Start the node with `run-migration-scripts` sub-command with `--core-schemas` and `--app-schemas`:

```bash
java -jar corda.jar run-migration-scripts --core-schemas --app-schemas
```

The node will perform any automatic data migrations required, which may take some time. If the migration process is interrupted, it can be continued simply by starting the node again, without harm. The node will stop automatically when migration is complete. See [Upgrading your node to Corda 4.8](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.8/enterprise/node-upgrade-notes.md) for more information.

## Use the `cordformation` Gradle plugin to create a set of local nodes automatically

Corda's `cordformation` Gradle plugin provides the `Cordform` and `Dockerform` tasks. They both allow you to run tasks that automatically generate and configure a local set of nodes for testing and demonstration purposes.

Apply the `cordformation` plugin to your project, and then you can register instances of the `Cordform` and `Dockerform` tasks:

```
import net.corda.plugins.Cordform

plugins {
    id 'net.corda.plugins.cordformation'
}

tasks.register('deployNodes', Cordform) {
    // etc
}
```

* Nodes deployed via `Dockerform` use Docker containers. A `Dockerform` task is similar to `Cordform` but it provides an extra file that enables you to easily spin up nodes using `docker-compose`. This creates a `docker-compose` file that enables you to run a single command to control the deployment of Corda nodes and databases (instead of deploying each node/database manually).
* For more information about the tasks, visit the [Dockerform](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/deploy/generating-a-node-dockerform.md) and [Cordform](../../../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/deploy/generating-a-node-cordform.md) pages.
