---
aliases:
- /releases/release-V3.0/running-a-node.html
date: '2020-01-08T09:59:25Z'
menu:
  corda-os-3-0:
    identifier: corda-os-3-0-running-a-node
    parent: corda-os-3-0-corda-nodes-index
    weight: 1020
tags:
- running
- node
title: Running nodes locally
---


# Running nodes locally


{{< note >}}
You should already have generated your node(s) with their CorDapps installed by following the instructions in
[Creating nodes locally](generating-a-node.md).

{{< /note >}}
There are several ways to run a Corda node locally for testing purposes.


## Starting all nodes at once

{{< note >}}
`runnodes` is a shell script (or batch file on Windows) that is generated by `deployNodes` to allow you
to quickly start up all nodes and their webservers. `runnodes` should only be used for testing purposes.

{{< /note >}}
Start the nodes with `runnodes` by running the following command from the root of the project:


* Linux/macOS: `build/nodes/runnodes`
* Windows: `call build\nodes\runnodes.bat`

If you receive an `OutOfMemoryError` exception when interacting with the nodes, you need to increase the amount of
Java heap memory available to them, which you can do when running them individually. See
[Starting an individual Corda node](#starting-an-individual-corda-node).



## Starting an individual Corda node

Run the node by opening a terminal window in the node’s folder and running:

```shell
java -jar corda.jar
```

By default, the node will look for a configuration file called `node.conf` and a CorDapps folder called `cordapps`
in the current working directory. You can override the configuration file and workspace paths on the command line (e.g.
`./corda.jar --config-file=test.conf --base-directory=/opt/corda/nodes/test`).

You can increase the amount of Java heap memory available to the node using the `-Xmx` command line argument. For
example, the following would run the node with a heap size of 2048MB:

```shell
java -Xmx2048m -jar corda.jar
```

You should do this if you receive an `OutOfMemoryError` exception when interacting with the node.

Optionally run the node’s webserver as well by opening a terminal window in the node’s folder and running:

```shell
java -jar corda-webserver.jar
```


{{< warning >}}
The node webserver is for testing purposes only and will be removed soon.

{{< /warning >}}



## Starting a node with remote debugging enabled

To enable remote debugging of the node, run the following from the terminal window:

`java -Dcapsule.jvm.args="-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=5005" -jar corda.jar`

This command line will start the debugger on port 5005 and pause the process awaiting debugger attachment.

