---
date: '2021-09-2012:00:00Z'
title: "Tuning OSGi metadata"
menu:
  corda-5-dev-preview:
    parent: corda-5-dev-preview-1-packaging-gradle-plugin
    weight: 200
project: corda-5
section_menu: corda-5-dev-preview
description: >
  Tuning the OSGi metadata generated by the `corda-cpk` Gradle plugin
---

# Tuning OSGi metadata


In most circumstances, the `cordapp-cpk` plugin correctly generates the OSGi metadata. However, the `cordapp-cpk` plugin also extends Gradle's `jar` task with an `osgi` block. This can be used to tune the OSGi metadata.

The `cordapp-cpk` plugin automatically adds these dependencies to the CorDapp:

```groovy
compileOnly "biz.aQute.bnd:biz.aQute.bnd.annotation:$bndVersion"
compileOnly "org.osgi:osgi.annotation:7.0.0"
```

These annotations [control how Bnd will generate OSGi metadata](https://bnd.bndtools.org/chapters/230-manifest-annotations.html)
for the main `.jar` file. In practice, the plugin already tries to handle the typical cases for creating CorDapps.

## Package exports

The `cordapp-cpk` plugin creates a Bnd `-exportcontents` command to generate the main `.jar` file's OSGi
`Export-Package` header. By default, it will automatically add every package inside the main `.jar` file to this
`-exportcontents` command. The assumption here is that a CorDapp will not have a complicated package structure,
and that Corda's OSGi sandboxes will provide additional CorDapp isolation anyway.

CorDapp developers who wish to configure their package exports more precisely can disable this default behaviour
from the `jar` task:

```groovy
tasks.named('jar', Jar) {
    osgi {
        autoExport = false
    }
}
```
You can then apply `@org.osgi.annotation.bundle.Export` annotations to selected `package-info.java`
files.

You can also export package names explicitly, although applying `@Export` annotations would still be better:

```groovy
tasks.named('jar', Jar) {
    osgi {
        exportPackage 'com.example.cordapp', 'com.example.cordapp.foo'
    }
}
```

## Package imports

Normally, Bnd generates the correct OSGi `Import-Package` manifest header automatically. Occasionally, Bnd will notice unexpected package references from unused code-paths within the byte-code.

The `cordapp-cpk` plugin provides the following options to override the detected package settings:

```groovy
tasks.named('jar', Jar) {
    osgi {
        // Declares that this CorDapp requires the OSGi framework to provide the 'com.example.cordapp' package.
        // This value is passed straight through to Bnd.
        importPackage 'com.example.cordapp'

        // Declares that this CorDapp uses the 'com.example.cordapp.foo' package.
        // However, Corda will not complain if no one provides it at runtime. This
        // assumes that the missing package isn't really required at all.
        optionalImport 'com.example.cordapp.foo'

        // Like `optionalImport`, except that it also assigns this package an empty
        // version range. This is useful when the unused package doesn't have a version
        // range of its own because it does not belong to another OSGi bundle.
        suppressImportVersion 'com.example.cordapp.bar'
    }
}
```

## ServiceLoader

Bundles that use `java.util.ServiceLoader` require special handling to support their `META-INF/services/` files.
Bnd provides [`@ServiceProvider` and `@ServiceConsumer` annotations](https://bnd.bndtools.org/chapters/240-spi-annotations.html)
to ensure that the bundle respects OSGi's [Service Loader Mediator Specification](https://docs.osgi.org/specification/osgi.cmpn/7.0.0/service.loader.html).

## Corda metadata

The plugin will generate the following tags in the "main" `.jar`'s `MANIFEST.MF` by default:
- `Corda-Contract-Classes`
- `Corda-Flow-Classes`
- `Corda-MappedSchema-Classes`
- `Corda-Service-Classes`

Each tag contains a list of the classes within the `.jar` file that have been identified as being
a Corda contract, a Corda flow, and so on. Each of these classes has also been confirmed as being
public, static and non-abstract, which allows Corda to instantiate them. Empty tags are
excluded from the final manifest, and so not every tag is guaranteed to be present.

The plugin generates these lists using Bnd's `${classes}` macro. However, R3 may also need to
update these macros as Corda evolves, and would prefer not to need to update the `cordapp-cpk`
plugin at the same time. R3 can therefore update the macros by modifying the
`net/corda/cordapp/cordapp-configuration.properties`
file inside the `net.corda.cordapp.cordapp-configuration`
Gradle plugin, and then developers can apply this new plugin to the CorDapps's root project. (The
`cordapp-configuration` plugin is part of the Corda repository, and new versions of it
will be released as part of Corda, of course.)
Any property key inside this file that matches `Corda-*-Classes` defines a filter to
generate a new manifest tag (or replace an existing tag). For example:
```
Corda-Contract-Classes=IMPLEMENTS;net.corda.v10.ledger.contracts.Contract
```
The `cordapp-cpk` plugin will append additional clauses to each filter to ensure that it still
only selects public static non-abstract classes, since we don't expect this requirement to change.

### Dynamic imports

The `.cpk` needs to declare imports for these packages so that OSGi can create lazy proxies
for any JPA entities the bundle may contain:
- `org.hibernate.proxy`
- `javaassist.util.proxy`

R3 must also allow the bundle to import this package, which contains Hibernate-specific annotations:
- `org.hibernate.annotations`

R3 declares all these packages as dynamic imports to avoid binding the `.cpk` to a specific
version of Hibernate, which should make it easier for Corda itself to evolve without breaking
everyone's CorDapps. (Future versions of Hibernate are also likely not to use Javassist.)

The plugin will declare these packages using the OSGI `DynamicImport-Package` header.

If necessary, R3 can update these package names via the `cordapp-configuration.properties`
file by adding a comma-separated list to the `Required-Packages` key:
```
Required-Packages=org.foo,org.bar
```

{{< note >}}

Doing this will completely override the plugin's hard-coded list of packages.

{{< /note >}}
